README

Author

Laura Van Brussel
--------------
system requirements:

This script is written in python version 3.6.2 

--------------
Purpose:

this script was created to investigate 1) the variance and 2) frequency of words used in Machine Translation (MT) Output.

---------------
Input files

This script requires (monolingual) Dutch *.txt files that are pos tagged by LeTs preprocessing tool.

--------------
RELEASE

21 documents from the Dutch Paralel Corpus were translated by the following systems:

RBMT: Systran (http://www.systransoft.com/)
SMT: Google Translate output generated June 2014 https://translate.google.co.uk/
NMT: Google Translate output generated June 2017

The bilingual files were preprocessed with OnlyNL.py CHECKEN, so monolingual Dutch files were created.

---------------
Folder structure
Masterfile
-NMT
-SMT
-RBMT
-'FreqSONAR_combined.txt': this file contains the actual frequency list from which the positions of every content word are derived.
(and generated by master_script.py:)
-'comparison_histogram.png'

subdirectories (for every MT system)
--00Bilingual: contains the original bilingual files
--01NL_output: contains the cleaned dutch files (retrieved after running the script 'Dutch_output_only.py'
--03POS : contains POS tagged input files (retrieved after having LeTs preprocessing tool pos tagged the clean NL files in 01NL_output
(and generated when running the script:)
--04contentwords : for every file in 03POS a list with the content words is generated and saved here when running the master_script.py.
--05_output_dict : for every input file, a file containing a dictionary was generated, the items for every content word look as follows: ["content word"] = [position on sonar list, # occurences in document]

other files generated for each MT system when running the masterscript:
--'output_info.txt':text file presenting vor variance : the number of types, the number of tokens and the type token ratio and for frequency : the total sum of all the positions of each content word and the average position of a word in the output.
--'out_of_voc.txt' : text file presenting all the content words in the output that are not in the SoNaR500 list on a separate line.
--'only_positions.txt' : file containing a comma separated list of only the positions of every content word
--'hist.png' : image visualizing the logscale division (log10) of the positions of the content words occuring in the MT output.
--'d_master_output : contains all the content words with their position and occurrences





---------------

REFERENCES

More info on Lets Preprocessing tool : Van de Kauter, M., Coorman, G., Lefever, E., Desmet, B., Macken, L., and Hoste, V., 2013. LeTs Preprocess: The multilingual LT3 linguistic preprocessing toolkit, Computational Linguistics in the Netherlands Journal, vol. 3, pp. 103-120, 2013.

More info on the SoNaR500 frequency list : Oostdijk, Nelleke, Hoste, V., de Jong, F., Reynaert, M., De Clercq, O., Desmet, B., & van den Heuvel, H. (2014). SoNaR-500. Centrale voor Taal- en Spraaktechnologie.



